# PHYSICAL-VERIFICATION-USING-SKYWATER-130NM-TECHNOLOGY
## Day1 Introduction to SKYWATER-130NM-TECHNOLOGY
### Introduction to SkyWater PDKs and opensource EDA tools
####  Introduction to Skywater PDK
In the past very limited amount of information was available for foundary specific processes without any example process to use. It was very hard to develop any opensource tools. In the start from 1980's Mosis foundation in california made availble first CMOS and SCMOS from 2 mmicron to 180 micron but since they are largely used only for acdamia. The skywater open PDK 130 nm SCMOS changes all that with completly opensource PDK with all design rules ,layes definitions, device definations and models and layouts and other critical information made available to the public. For the first time it possible to work up libraries and opensource tools built around a real world PDks. Efabless is company that making this message out to the public for chip development. They created a design named as The caravel or  harness chip. That has a pad frame and small RISCV processor and a large  user project area where designers can place their design and without woring about the complex things like placement of PADS and how to communicate with the outside world ect. Combining this user design with harness chip submit to EFABLESS which after some period of time sent a circuit board for testing the chip which is all paid by GOOGLE. PDK stands for process design kit. it consists of bundle of documentation and files that user use to make use to built a chip. In SKY130 , 130 is the 130nm which is the feature size of a transister or transister length. The name skywater refers to the name of the manufacturer resides in Minesota USA. The skywater PDK is available in the public repository that largely divides into two parts, one is documentation and second is PDK library and files.
